# CryptoClustering

To use an unsupervised learning model to predict if cryptocurrencies are affected by a 24 hour or seven day price change, first the crypto data was imported and the standard scaler library was used to normalize the columns containing integers, and this was placed into a data frame with the coin ID as the index column. The next step was to find the best K value from a range between one and 11 using a for loop to compute the inertia with each possible K value, and then creating a K means model. The values of K and the computed inertia value was placed into a dataframe, and a line chart was created. Looking at the line chart, it's observed that the K value of 4 is the best to create the clusters. A predict model was used, and a scatter plot was made charting the 24 hour price versus the seven day price change.

Then a PCA model with three principal components was created, and the fit_transform function was used to bring the original scaled dataframe down to three components. The explained variance was also calculated with it being equal to 90%. A dataframe with the PCA data was created, bringing in the coin ID index column from the original scaled dataframe. Another list of K values between one and 11 was created and a for loop was used again to go through the K list, create a K means model and calculate the inertia now using the dataframe with the PCA data.  The elbow curve created shows that four is the best value when using the PCA data. A predict model was made and a scatter plot created comparing PCA1 versus PCA2. 

When comparing the two elbow curved plots created from the original scaled data and the PCA data, they are very similar with the best K value being four. Comparing the two scatter plots show that the PCA method has clusters that are much more closer together and mostly belonging in segment 0 & 3, while the clusters created using the original scaled dataframe were less tightly spread out and they were spread out more evenly among the four segments compared to the PCA method. Both methods resulted in the least amount of clusters in segment 2.
